README.md, before:

# iota
Input-output (audio, controls, etc) library for D. Intended as a D language native replacement for SDL, SFML, etc.

# Current state

|Component                 |Windows                             |Linux                               |
|--------------------------|------------------------------------|------------------------------------|
|Audio                     |Preliminary, output stream works    |Output works + some issues          |
|MIDI                      |Input+Output, with some caveat      |Not yet implemented                 |
|Keyboard                  |Legacy: Works; Raw: Buggy           |Not yet implemented                 |
|Mouse                     |Legacy: Works; Raw: Buggy           |Not yet implemented                 |
|Pen Tablet                |Not yet implemented                 |Not yet implemented                 |
|Game controllers          |Not yet implemented                 |Not yet implemented                 |
|Windowing                 |A bit buggy                         |Not yet implemented                 |
|OpenGL output             |In progress, not working yet        |Not yet implemented                 |

MacOSX is not yet supported due to lack of hardware. Please consider contributing to this project!

## Audio

### Windows

Only WASAPI output is supported at the moment, but it seems to work correctly. Buffer overflow protection is done through spinning in a loop alongside with the wait. It's not nice, but works, and eliminates possible issues from inconsistent buffer sizes.

Deinitialization is automatic through destructors and bug free. Windows-specific error-codes are handled as should.

### Linux

Error handling is quite preliminary with one having to rely on returned error codes. ALSA documentation is quite scarce, and often don't contain more than what one can get out from function names, let alone the possible returned error codes. Device selection might contain non-PCM devices, so initializing with default device (-1) is recommended instead for now.

Audio is tested and confirmed working on 64 bit Raspberry Pi devices, which probably means all 64 bit ARM SoCs are supported under Linux.

## MIDI

### Windows

Both input and output works, but might suffer from some caveat that stems from the Windows MIDI API. There's a chance that calling a MIDI system function within the MIDI input callback will cause a lockup.

## Controls

### Windows

Keyboard and mouse works without much issues while using the legacy API. RawInput is buggy as of now, and cannot differentiate between different devices.

# Examples

See `testsource/app.d` for audio, `inputtest/app.d` for input and basic windowing, and `miditest.app` for MIDI.

Commit message:

Fixing some bugs and improving some features

README.md, after:

# iota
Input-output (audio, controls, etc) library for D. Intended as a D language native replacement for SDL, SFML, etc.

# Current state

|Component                 |Windows                             |Linux                               |
|--------------------------|------------------------------------|------------------------------------|
|Audio                     |Preliminary, output stream works    |Output works + some issues          |
|MIDI                      |Input+Output, with some caveat      |Not yet implemented                 |
|Keyboard                  |Legacy: Works; Raw: Buggy           |Not yet implemented                 |
|Mouse                     |Legacy: Works; Raw: Buggy           |Not yet implemented                 |
|Pen Tablet                |Not yet implemented                 |Not yet implemented                 |
|Game controllers          |Not yet implemented                 |Not yet implemented                 |
|Windowing                 |A bit buggy                         |Not yet implemented                 |
|OpenGL output             |In progress, not working yet        |Not yet implemented                 |

MacOSX is not yet supported due to lack of hardware. Please consider contributing to this project!

## Audio

### Windows

Only WASAPI output is supported at the moment, but it seems to work correctly. Buffer overflow protection is done through spinning in a loop alongside with the wait. It's not nice, but works, and eliminates possible issues from inconsistent buffer sizes.

Deinitialization is automatic through destructors and bug free. Windows-specific error-codes are handled as should.

### Linux

Error handling is quite preliminary with one having to rely on returned error codes. ALSA documentation is quite scarce, and often don't contain more than what one can get out from function names, let alone the possible returned error codes. Device selection might contain non-PCM devices, so initializing with default device (-1) is recommended instead for now.

Audio is tested and confirmed working on 64 bit Raspberry Pi devices, which probably means all 64 bit ARM SoCs are supported under Linux.

## MIDI

### Windows

Both input and output works, but might suffer from some caveat that stems from the Windows MIDI API. There's a chance that calling a MIDI system function within the MIDI input callback will cause a lockup.

## Controls

### Windows

Keyboard and mouse works without much issues while using the legacy API. A known bug is that it sometimes generates an additional empty event if the Alt key is pressed (because some people thought it's a good idea to dedicate a whole modifier key for the menubar), this will be fixed in a later release.

#### Raw input

This library is (mostly) equipped to handle raw input data, but currently it has some bugs. For some reason, it cannot differentiate between input devices at the moment.

# Examples

See `testsource/app.d` for audio, `inputtest/app.d` for input and basic windowing, and `miditest.app` for MIDI.
